# lecture 5-1.1

错题：why should the woman visit her professor's office?

- 错： offer to help student (这是女生认为的 take time from students who need help)
- 对:
  - Introduct herself
  - off a compliment （赞扬， 文中是appreciate positive feedback)



单词:

 Compliment 赞扬 

impersonal  客观的，没人情味

understatment 基础陈述

Distinguish 区分



# lecture 5-1.2

错题：

1. Which  of the following are examples of meme transfer?

:x: Composing orginal music. (这是个陷阱，不是作曲，而是传唱歌曲)

:white_check_mark:Learning a scientific theory (教授在举例子的时候提及)（idea，skill，story，songs；word you know，scitific thoery, the rule people observe）



2. what example does the professor give of a meme's longevity?

   :x: A song quickly becomes popilar all over the world (这里是对应第二点，)

   :white_check_mark: A person remebers a story for many years. 

单词：

alligator 鳄鱼

meme

replucator 复制者

fecundity 繁殖力，肥沃

fidelity 保真度，忠诚

sewer 污水道



# leture 5-1.3

Basin 盆地

Pinpoint 指出

penetrate 穿透

crater 陨石坑



错题：

1. Why is the South Pole-A Basin thought to be exceptionally old?

   :x: Tesing of rocks from the Basin's floor proves them to be as old as the Mon itself.(没有提及到)

   :white_check_mark: Many small craters have been detected at the bottom of the Basin. 





# Lecture 5-2.1

Assignment 申请

dropping back



错题

Why was tyhe student permitted to sign up for professor's file thoery course?

:x: Her high school course fulfilled the requirement for previous course work.

:white_check_mark: An employee in the department did not follow instructions. (office stuff give permission， 教授听后表示无奈：how many time I tell them)





why does the professor decide to allow the student to remain in his class?

:x: She convinces him that she does have adequate preparation fo the course.(在前面的对话中教授认为之前的课不满足)

:white_check_mark: He learns that she is not studing film as her main course of study.( I still)







