REVIEW QUESTIONS
1. By taking this review assignment and checking on "I agree" below, I acknowledge that I have read and understood the reviewer guidelines.

Agreement accepted

2. Summary. In 5-7 sentences, describe the key ideas, experimental or theoretical results, and their significance.

This paper extends the idea of RepPoints to the field of aerial object detection. To overcome the problem of the discontinuity of loss and regression inconsistency, this paper proposes to learn point sets for better representation of rotated objects. Moreover, the adaptive points assessment and assignment (APAA) scheme is proposed for adaptive points learning, which can help solve RepPoints’ problem that it fails to measure the quality of learned points. Experiments on DOTA, HSRC2016, UCAS-AOD and DIOR-R demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.

3. Strengths. Consider the significance of key ideas, experimental or theoretical validation, writing quality, data contribution. Explain clearly why these aspects of the paper are valuable. Short bullet lists do NOT suffice.

(1) Overall, although this work borrows the idea of RepPoints, the proposed method is somewhat novel and rational for solving problems of rotated object detection. I agree with the author that representing bounding box in a similar way to RepPoints is a good choice for handling the problem of loss discontinuity and regression inconsistency in the field of rotated object detection.
(2) Also, this work solves some problems of the original RepPoints, including its simple and heuristic bounding box conversion function and failure of point quality measurement. It seems that these contributions can also be helpful to improve the performance of RepPoints on general object detection.
(3) Extensive experiments on four datasets provide convincing results and verifies the effectiveness of the proposed method.

（1）问题一：时间和空间上的联系是否不一样，直接使用等价的图链接空间时间上的节点是否没有考虑到时间和空间之间的差异？

4. Weaknesses. Consider the significance of key ideas, experimental or theoretical validation, writing quality, data contribution. Clearly explain why these are weak aspects of the paper, e.g. why a specific prior work has already demonstrated the key contributions, or why the experiments are insufficient to validate the claims, etc. Short bullet lists do NOT suffice.

(1) In L.91 the authors mention that orientation regression-based detectors cannot accurately predict the orientations, as shown in Fig. 1-(a). I don’t fully agree with that. Firstly, Fig. 1-(a) is not a true visualization of state-of-the-art performances. For example, Fig. 4 in ReDet [1] demonstrates similar rotation prediction ability to Oriented RepPoints shown in Fig. 1-(b). It is hard to say the authors solve the issue they mentioned. Maybe more challenging images are needed to provide evidence. Secondly, the authors take convex hull representation and GIoU Loss as the criteria, which are similar to CFA [2]. The authors may need to further clarify the difference between these two works to support their motivation and innovation. Besides, the authors propose a new detector scheme, but they don’t explain why we need this detector in aerial object detection. In other words, there is a lack of comparison between these ways of representation since there are many other forms of representing rotated bounding box. I wonder what is the advantage of adaptive points representation over these existing methods?

(2) The proposed method introduces too many hyper-parameters, including two weighting factors in loss function, three weighting factors for quality evaluation, the number of points and a sampling ratio in top k assignment. The fine-tuning of a large number of hyper-parameters seems to be inevitable in realizing the proposed method, which will make it time-consuming to transfer to a different dataset.

(3) Considering the fact that there are many hyper-parameters in the proposed method, it might be really tricky to fine-tune the different hyper-parameters, it would be better to provide more information or experiments on the chosen of hyper-parameters.

(4) The verification of the proposed quality measurement metric Q is not rigorous. First of all, the definition of quality is not stated in this paper. Furthermore, although individual effectiveness is verified by ablation study, I think it is not enough to prove that the proposed metric can improve the “quality” of points. Thus, more explanation or validation protocol may be necessary to be added to make the chosen of Q more convincing.

(5) In L.364, \rho is a discontinuous measurement of outliers, which may lead to gradient problems during training. Can the authors provide a smooth criterion for outlier supervision? In L.462, the authors define Qpoc as point-wise feature diversity. Why do the authors think the lower Qpoc is the better? The authors hope that these points can capture key semantic information. But does the design of Qpoc suppress the points’ ability to capture key locations? Because these key locations usually have relatively large semantic differences.

(6) Some details of the proposed method seem to be missing. In line 388, line 395 of page 4, the concrete forms of classification and localization quality measurement are not given. There are also some typos and undefined symbols. The authors need to double-check their paper. L. 326: \theta is undefined. L. 367: what kind of norm is used here? L. 411: MinAeaRect should be MinAreaRect, same for L. 571, L. 580, etc.

[1] Han J, Ding J, Xue N, et al. Redet: A rotation-equivariant detector for aerial object detection, CVPR 2021: 2786-2795.
[2] Guo Z, Liu C, Zhang X, et al. Beyond Bounding-Box: Convex-Hull Feature Adaptation for Oriented and Densely Packed Object Detection, CVPR 2021: 8792-8801.

5. Paper rating (pre-rebuttal).

Weak Reject

6. Recommendation confidence.

Very Confident

7. Justification of rating. What are the most important factors in your rating?

This work utilizes the advantage of RepPoints and extends it to the field of aerial object detection with some innovation, the proposed method is new and rational for rotated object detection. However, this is not the first paper to discuss the different way of rotated bounding box representation, also there is a lack of some comparison between existing ways of representation and part of the verification is not rigorous enough. Insufficient motivation and innovation are the most import factors lead to weak reject rating.

8. Are there any serious ethical/privacy/transparency/fairness concerns? If yes, please also discuss below in Question 9.

No

9. Limitations and Societal Impact. Have the authors adequately addressed the limitations and potential negative societal impact of their work? Discuss any serious ethical/privacy/transparency/fairness concerns here. Also discuss if there are important limitations that are not apparent from the paper.

In the first stage, Oriented RepPoints inherits the sample assignment strategy in RepPoints[3]. The RepPoints paper mentions that they may face the ambiguity that the center points of multiple ground truth objects are located at the same feature map position. They randomly choose one object to be the target of this position. We know that tiny objects and densely packed objects are common in aerial images, which may lead to more serious assignment ambiguity. I think the authors need to investigate the ambiguity of small objects in some scenes like cars in the parking lot, yachts in the harbor, etc. In addition, the authors use P3 to P7 for object prediction. How about using P2 to improve the parsing ability of small objects. How much computational burden will it bring?
[3] Yang Z, Liu S, Hu H, et al. Reppoints: Point set representation for object detection, ICCV 2019: 9657-9666.

10. Is the contribution of a new dataset a main claim for this paper? Have the authors indicated so in the submission form?

No dataset contribution claim

11. Additional comments to author(s). Include any comments that may be useful for revision but should not be considered in the paper decision.

The authors take classification and localization losses to assess the quality of a point set, which only uses the information of GT labels. GradNorm [4] suggests replacing the direct losses with the gradient normalization before fc. In this way, Qcls and Qloc can reflect the classification, localization, and feature information of the sample itself. This may be effective for improving APAA.
[4] Huang R, Geng A, Li Y. On the importance of gradients for detecting distributional shifts in the wild. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2021, 34.