



### 2021/12/18

@全体成员    本周组会将于周六上午9点在303会议室进行，由贺钰洁同学做论文分享报告。
Title: Improving Multispectral Pedestrian Detection by Addressing Modality Imbalance Problems
Abstract: Multispectral pedestrian detection is capable of adapting to insufficient illumination conditions by leveraging color-thermal modalities. On the other hand, it is still lacking of in-depth insights on how to fuse the two modalities effectively. Compared with traditional pedestrian detection, we find multispectral pedestrian detection suffers from modality imbalance problems which will hinder the optimization process of dual-modality network and depress the performance of detector. Inspired by this observation, we propose Modality Balance Network (MBNet) which facilitates the optimization process in a much more flexible and balanced manner. Firstly, we design a novel Differential Modality Aware Fusion (DMAF) module to make the two modalities complement each other. Secondly, an illumination aware feature alignment module selects complementary features according to the illumination conditions and aligns the two modality features adaptively. Extensive experimental results demonstrate MBNet outperforms the state-of-the-arts on both the challenging KAIST and CVC-14 multispectral pedestrian datasets in terms of the accuracy and the computational efficiency. 

Reference: Zhou K, Chen L, Cao X. Improving multispectral pedestrian detection by addressing modality imbalance problems[C]//Computer Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part XVIII 16. Springer International Publishing, 2020: 787-803.

Link: https://github.com/CalayZhou/MBNet

