1. How to overcome the poor discrimination between high similarity instances and the problem of distinct feature distribution between different modalities, it is not clearly pointed out in the paper which modules are responsible for solving the corresponding problems. （两个模块对应解决两个问题要全文着重体现）
2. The author mentioned that “to overcome the aforementioned difficulties of SAR optional patch response”, what are these difficulties? The author first listed two specific problems, and then repeatedly raised multiple difficulties. What exactly are the problems that this paper aims to address?  （问题就两个，后面不要再用其他的字眼，可以减少triple和project的介绍（或者说他们也是解决模态差异的），就写清楚问题和对应的解决方案）
3. The author mentioned in the second contribution that “We propose an explicit representation for the discrepancy of modal feature distribution via a Wasserstein distance and design the cross-modal adversarial learning to extract modal-invariant features from optical and SAR images”. So what is the difference between it and existing methods, or what are its advantages?（wass的优势没有写出来）
4. Pay attention to checking some spelling and grammatical errors in the paper, for example- In Section III, we provide a comprehensive exposition of our proposed scheme, including the overview “of the” scheme, the cross-modal coarse search module, and the refinement module. （检查文字）
5. In the presentation of the relevant work, the author should point out the specific content of the three types of work and the differences between them, rather than simply piling up multiple literatures, and connecting them in a coherent presentation. （相关工作写得苍白，要连贯起来）
6. How to ensure that the patches cut out by optical and SAR are consistent? （在数据集介绍上强调人工对齐）
7. Why did the author choose cosine distance as the similarity evaluation and have you tried other evaluation criteria? （cosin, L1, L2, KL, JS）

1. In the introduction section, the research background and significance are unclear. There is currently a large amount of research on the **registration** of SAR and optical images, but this paper focuses on retrieval of SAR images from the candidate optical images. **What is the value and application direction of this research? （在任务介绍上强调这个的重要性）（介绍视觉定位和目标定位）**
2. The images presented in the paper are polarimetric SAR images, but the algorithm does not consider the polarimetric features and characteristics of PolSAR. Does this mean that the method is also applicable to single-polarization SAR image retrieval? Furthermore, PolSAR images are simply pseudo-colored images with three channels. What is the significance of conducting SAR image retrieval research on such RGB images? (SAR用于全天时全天候，在恶劣条件下RGB没有The method proposed in this paper did not take into account the scattering characteristics of SAR images. （这个工作主要是集中解决跨模态视觉定位的问题，因此通过转换特征提取共有模态，SAR转换成的伪RGB图像也包含了部分scatter特性，未来工作会考虑针对SAR的特性专门研究）
3. In the experiments, ‘Patch Correspondence Datasets’, the image resolution of SAR and optical images are both 0.5. However, we often face the situation where optical images and SAR images have different resolutions. How does the algorithm proposed in this paper handle this issue? （就说未来工作搞这个，确实存在这个问题，以往的工作也有就图像分辨率进行研究，由于数据集的原因未能验证图像分辨率的差异问题，主要集中于跨模态视觉定位，且用于定位时通常能够在reference数据库中找到接近分辨率的地图）
4. The authors proposed that ‘We construct three different SAR-Optical patch correspondence datasets based on the extended SpaceNet 6 data [20] to evaluate the performance of various methods on the cross-modal patch correspondence task.’ Therefore, the dataset should be made public.（数据公开）

为什么做？（做定位、SAR抗恶劣情况）

坑：SAR的patch很小





The Aligned Dataset contains the paired SAR query aligned with the optical reference patches, which aims to evaluate the instance consistency of the cross-modal features.

b) The Same-Area Dataset contains the non-aligned pairs, where all the optical patches are available in both the training and the testing phase, which is focused on application scenarios when the city data is available for training.

c) The Cross-Area Dataset represents a general challenge for methods to match pairs in a new region, which contains non-aligned pairs from no overlapping regions between the test set and the training set.





*1) Patch Correspondence Datasets:* Our proposed patch correspondence dataset is based on the SpaceNet 6 (SN6) data [20], which consists of 204 different strips of SAR data collected from Rotterdam, The Netherlands, covering over 120 square km of the city. The SAR strips cover every area of the city, with at most 30 strips overlapping in some areas, as illustrated in Fig. 5(a). Each strip has four different polarization modes (HH, HV, VH, and VV), and we use three of these modes (HH, VV, and VH) to construct the polarized SAR pseudo-color images with a spatial resolution of 0.5 meters. The optical imagery is acquired by the Maxar Worldview-2 satellite, with a spatial resolution of 0.5 meters as well. We design the optical patch references and the SAR queries from this data and design three datasets to evaluate the proposed method. The GPS information of the optical image and the SAR strips is manually corrected.



J. Shermeyer, D. Hogan, J. Brown, A. Van Etten, N. Weir, F. Pacifici, R. Hansch, A. Bastidas, S. Soenen, T. Bacastow *et al.*, “Spacenet 6: Multi-sensor all weather mapping dataset,” in *Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops*, 2020, pp. 196–197.